

My dad emailed me over the weekend, to ask if I’d seen [lingscars.com](http://lingscars.com/). He
wasn’t sure what to make of it—should he laugh or despair? I, of course, had seen it before.  [Phil
Hawksworth](http://twitter.com/philhawksworth)uses it in his talks where he discusses over-using bells and
whistles, and being careful using piles of JavaScript.

I emailed my dad back, and told him that yes, it’s done the rounds, and yes it’s still successful.
It struck me that it didn’t actually matter what I thought past that though—it’s awful in an
aesthetic sense, but so what? It clearly gets them business. In the same week, I’d come across something
I hadn’t seen in a while—because I have Flash disabled—a website with music! It was using
`<audio>`. Infuriating, because that’s exactly the sort of feature I disliked about the
“old” web and was blocking for, and it was back using modern, better, technologies—but what did
I really expect would happen? That website creators across the internet would simultaneously stop wanting
jingles on their website just because we’d switched the technology on them?

We might be pushing out proprietary technologies like Flash, replacing them with the open web-friendly options
like video, audio and WebGL, but we’re not changing expectations from users about how websites should
actually look and behave—what’s annoying, what teaches users to be fooled, what puts them off,
what’s fun. The question for me is really will this class of website, like Ling’s Cars, always
exist and will we always just write them off without learning about why they still work for a large set of our
audiences?