

Changing the world is within your grasp.

This is not necessarily a good thing.

If you go around and talk to normal people, it becomes clear that, weirdly, they don’t ever imagine how
to get ten million dollars. They don’t think about new ways to redesign a saucepan or the buttons in
their car. They don’t contemplate why sending a parcel is slow and how it could be a slicker process.
They don’t think about *ways to change the world*.

I find it hard to talk to someone who doesn’t think like that.

To an engineer, the world is a toy box full of sub-optimized and feature-poor toys, as Scott Adams once put
it. To a designer, the world is full of bad design. And to both, it is not only possible but at a high level
*obvious* how to (a) fix it (b) for everyone (c) and make a few million out of doing so.

At first, this seems a blessing: you can see how the world could be better! And make it happen!

Then it’s a curse. Those normal people I mentioned? Short of winning the lottery or Great Uncle Brewster
dying, there’s no possibility of becoming a multi-millionaire, and so they’re not thinking about
it. Doors that have a handle on them but say “Push” are not a source of distress. Wrong kerning in
signs is not like sandpaper on *their* nerves.

The curse of being able to change the world is… the frustration that you have so far failed to do so.

Perhaps there is a Zen thing here. Some people have managed it. Maybe you have. So the world is better, and
that’s a good thing all by itself, right? 