

I recently did a Q&A for .net magazine ([June 2012, issue 228](http://www.netmagazine.com/shop)),
answering a few reader questions. One person inquired about my experience going full-time freelance. In my
answer, I discussed how I'd always been fearful about going out on my own because of the sales process.

Having spent the majority of my career in the marketing and sales departments of various employers, I hadn't
seen much in the way of “sales” that appealed to me. Particularly the aspects of it that always
struck me as sleazy. 

I just couldn't see myself being that kind of person. Pushy, fake and even dishonest. I also couldn't see
myself as the confident “people person” I thought you had to be in order to be successful with
sales, sleazy or not.

My first year freelancing, I avoided sales. And, fortunately, I was able to get away with it… but only
for so long. This year has been slower for me so far, and that means I've had to take more action in terms of
generating new opportunities. Ick. Even writing “generating new opportunities” feels like the kind
of sales-speak that bothers me.

But this is the problem. My *perception* of sales.

Thanks, in part, to speaking with [Brad Parscale on the EE
Podcast](http://ee-podcast.com/episodes/selling-ee), my perception is changing. I'm not only learning to
embrace the sales process, but I'm learning to re-think what sales really is. And, even better, my business is
benefitting from this shift.

I'm discovering that true sales is about the prospective client and the fact that I can help them achieve
their business goals. It's about the need to establish a relationship so they feel secure to trust me with
their business. It sounds like common sense, I know, but re-defining sales from this perspective has been key
for me.

I'm now spending more time with prospects, not only trying to learn more about their project but also building
a relationship. For example, I created a project questionnaire that I ask all prospects to complete. It has
been a fantastic tool to give me a big- and small-picture perspective of the prospect and their needs. 

The questionnaire has also impressed several prospects (one of which is now a client), who appreciate the more
professional fact-finding tool than a simple email. And, for those who don't want to fill it out, the
questionnaire has served as a red flag for prospects who may not be a good fit for me.

Beyond the questionnaire, I'm also taking more time to research prospective projects and clearly define what I
can deliver before following up with a call. I take more time to ask questions about a project that the
prospect, perhaps, didn't address or didn't consider. 

This preparation, though a bit time-consuming, is worth it. Every single time, the prospects I speak with are
impressed with how well I know their project and how prepared I am to deliver. Even for those prospects who
don't become clients, I've left a positive and professional impression that could lead to work in the future
or a referral.

I won't lie and say that I *like* all the extra work this now involves for me. I'd much rather write HTML and
CSS all day long. But there is a rhythm to it, and it is nice to constantly fine-tune my communication skills
and materials. 

Also, by investing in this upfront time with a prospect, when I do win a project, I'm so much better prepared
to execute *and* my estimates are much more on-target. I've also found that the clients I've earned with this
considered sales approach are more committed to their projects and invested with the vision we've come up with
during the sales process.

What I realize now is that if you are doing sales well, you don't even think of it as sales. It's building
relationships, understanding a client and a project, and demonstrating you can deliver. Nothing sleazy about
that.