

If there is one thing that is guaranteed to damage — if not doom — a project, it's ego.

Consider the project manager who hoards information because *only she knows* what's relevant to
other team members and when. Or the new developer who just joined the company and wants to change
established procedures because *he knows* how to do things better. Or the designer who won't
consider critical feedback because *she knows* what she delivered is exactly what's needed.

I've worked with all of these types of people. In fact, at stages of my career, I've
even *been* these types of people. At those times, I thought I was being passionate or
committed to the project. But the truth of it was, I was letting my ego drive. And my ego wasn't interested in
considering anything external. Because that's how egos are.

Egos don't care about requirements, timelines, budgets, user needs, limited resources or legacy systems. They
don't care about other opinions or ideas. They are roadblocks to everything essential to making a project
successful, especially compromise, collaboration and communication. And, worst of all, ego
keeps *you* from growing. Your ego won't let you learn something new. Or see a different
perspective. Or even get inspired.

Knowing this is so much easier than *doing* something about it, though. It can be hard to
distinguish your ego from your opinion (or passion or commitment). But it's just as important to hone
that skill as it is to keep up with changing technologies, because employers want someone with a point of view
who is open to other points of view. Clients want to work with an expert who listens to them and considers
their realities. Colleagues want to work with someone who has great ideas *and* welcomes others'.
All of us want to be inspired, but not if it means tolerating assholery.

One of the simplest ways to keep ego in check is to __take your time__. I've learned to never respond
immediately to a change request or a demanding question. Ego is always ready with the first answer, which is
rarely the most thoughtful one. A little bit of time can make the difference between an ego-driven reply and a
well-considered response.

It also helps to __keep your focus on what's important__. For example, if I feel myself getting defensive
when a client wants to change a design, I try to shift my focus back to the client and what he needs and
wants. This doesn't mean sacrificing my expertise or the project goals. It simply opens me to communication,
which is the gateway to a successful project *and* a happy client who wants to work with me
again.