

When I was in fourth grade, I was given an assignment to interview a family member and then to write their
biography. I chose my great-grandfather, who was born in 1900. Interviewing him in the early 1980s, his life
story was fascinating: he remembered the first time he’d seen an automobile, the first moving picture he
saw, the first time he saw something man-made in the air, the first time he’d heard a radio, the first
he saw a television. In his lifetime, humanity went from horse-drawn buggy to walking on the moon. Everything
I take for granted was once new to him.

I’m reminded of this because my generation will have a parallel story, though likely less dramatic, to
tell. My children cannot remember a day without the internet. 

My first encounter with a web browser was in the early nineties. I had entered the computer lab in order to
print out a term paper, and a friend of mine waved me over. “You’ve got to see this!” He had
this window open, and typed something in and suddenly we were seeing a news report about the spread of the
Ebola virus, accompanied by __pictures__. It was grotesque and fascinating.

A few years later, I was working at an engineering research center, and tasked with putting together an online
glossary, and finally got to see how such pages were put together. HTML reminded me of working in WordPerfect
documents, which, back then, had a mode that allowed you to work directly with the declarative codes used to
alter the appearance of text.

Fast forward to the year 2000. I was working at a small publisher and book catalog. We’d recently moved
our online catalog in-house, thanks to the fact that our catalog software had a module for IIS. I was asked to
give the site a new look, since I’d done some HTML before. I quickly discovered that the HTML was not
hard-coded, but being generated by this language called “Active Server Pages”. I figured out what
needed to be done.

A few months later, my boss noticed that this up and coming company, and competitor, really,
“Amazon,” was now allowing people to review books on their site. He asked me to add that feature
to the site.

The software we had used FoxPro, and while I could get things out of it, I couldn’t quite figure out how
to put things *into* it, particularly not in a way that would allow us to upgrade easily. So I did some
research, and decided to use Perl to accomplish the task. I got some books, studied hard for a few weeks,
added Perl and MySQL to our IIS installation, and banged out the functionality.

And at that point, I was hooked by the web, and specifically creating content for the web.

Today, I have two kids. Neither of them knows a world without the web. They’ve never seen a regular
modem, much less a phone that connects to the wall, or with an actual dial. How foreign will my life be to
their children, and their children’s children? And will the internet as I first saw it be only the first
in a pioneering step towards bigger and better technology? Or one of history’s failures?

Either way, I can’t wait to see what the future holds.